Content/Waher.Content.Markdown/README.md, before:

﻿Introduction
=============

The **Waher.Content.Markdown** library is a Markdown parser written in C#. The library can, apart from parsing Markdown, also export to HTML and XAML, 
which makes it suitable for server-side CMS applictions, as well as client-side applications working with markdown. 
It's part of the [IoTGateway solution](https://github.com/PeterWaher/IoTGateway).

Markdown
==============

The markdown parser defined in **Waher.Content.Markdown** is inspired by the [original markdown syntax](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax)
as defined by John Gruber at Daring Fireball, but contains numerous other additions:

-   Markdown syntax within block-level HTML constructs is allowed.
-   Numbered lists retain the number used in the text.
-   Lazy numbering supported by prefixing items using `#.` instead of using actual numbers.
-   `_underline_` underlines text.
-   `__inserted__` displays inserted text.
-   `~strike through~` strikes through text.
-   `~~deleted~~` displays deleted text.
-   \`\` is solely used to display code. Curly quotes are inserted using normal quotes.
-   Headers receive automatic id's (camel casing).
-   Emojis are supported using the shortname syntax `:shortname:`.
-   Smileys are supported, and converted to emojis. Inspired from: http://git.emojione.com/demos/ascii-smileys.html
-   Sections can be created by separating them using a block containing a single line of `=` signs. Number of desired columns can be specified
    by dividing the line into groups of `=` signs, separating them with one or more space characters. Number of actual columns used to present
    the information will depend on medium used to display the content. Currently, only HTML supports multi-column sections, and then only if
    the client used has sufficient space to display the desired number of columns.
-	Script can be embedded in the markdown between curly braces `{` and `}`. It is evaluated and the result inserted in the final output.
-	Pre-processed script can be embedded in the markdown between double curly braces `{{` and `}}`. It is evaluated in a pre-processing phase,
	and can be used to modify the structure of the markdown document. Implicit print operations can be used to create dynamic markdown content.

-   Any multimedia, not just images, can be inserted using the `!` syntax. This includes audio and video. The architecture is pluggable and allows for 
    customization of inclusion of content, including web content such as YouTube videos, etc. Linking to a local markdown file will include the file into 
	the context of the document. This allows for markdown templates to be used, and for more complex constructs, such as richer tables, to be built. 
	Multimedia can have additional width and height information. Multimedia handler is selected based on URL or file extension. If no particular 
	multimedia handler is found, the source is considered to be an image.
    
    Examples:
    
    * `![some text](/some/url "some title" WIDTH HEIGHT)` where `WIDTH` and `HEIGHT` are positive integers.
    * `![Your browser does not support the audio tag](/local/music.mp3)` (is rendered using the `<audio>` tag)
    * `![Your browser does not support the video tag](/local/video.mp4 320 200)` (is rendered using the `<video>` tag)
    * `![Your browser does not support the iframe tag](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=whBPLc8m4SU 800 600)` inserts an `<iframe>` embedding the YouTube video.
	* `![Table of Contents](ToC)` inserts a table of contents (`ToC` is case insensitive).
	* `![Web Page](http://example.com/Index.html 1200 300)` inserts an `<iframe>` embedding a web page.
	* `![Markdown](/Templates/template1.md)` inserts the contents of a markdown file into the current position.
    
    Width and Height can also be defined in referenced content. Example: `![some text][someref]`  
    `[someref]: some/url "some title" WIDTH HEIGHT`

	Multiresolution or Multiformatted multimedia can be included by including a sequence of sources. If inline mode is used, each source is written
	between a set of parenthesis. The sources are then optionally separated by whitespace (inluding on a new row).

There are numerous typographical enhancements added to the parser. These are inspired by the the [Smarty Pants](http://daringfireball.net/projects/smartypants/) 
addition to the original markdown, but numerous other character sequences are also supported:

| Sequence | Changed to |
|:-----------:|:-------------------:|
| `(c)` | &copy; |
| `(C)` | &COPY; |
| `(r)` | &reg; |
| `(R)` | &REG; |
| `(p)` | &copysr; |
| `(P)` | &copysr; |
| `(s)` | &oS; |
| `(S)` | &circledS; |
| `<<` | &laquo; |
| `>>` | &raquo; |
| `<<<` | &Ll; |
| `>>>` | &Gg; |
| `<--` | &larr; |
| `-->` | &rarr; |
| `<-->` | &harr; |
| `<==` | &lArr; |
| `==>` | &rArr; |
| `<==>` | &hArr; |
| `[[` | &LeftDoubleBracket; |
| `]]` | &RightDoubleBracket; |
| `+-` | &PlusMinus; |
| `-+` | &MinusPlus; |
| `<>` | &ne; |
| `<=` | &leq; |
| `>=` | &geq; |
| `==` | &equiv; |
| `^a` | &ordf; |
| `^o` | &ordm; |
| `^0` | &deg; |
| `^1` | &#185; |
| `^2` | &#178; |
| `^3` | &#179; |
| `^TM` | &trade; |
| `%0` | &permil; |
| `%00` | &pertenk; |

Selected features from [MultiMarkdown](https://rawgit.com/fletcher/human-markdown-reference/master/index.html) and
[Markdown Extra](https://michelf.ca/projects/php-markdown/extra/) have also been included:

-   Images placed in a paragraph by itself is wrapped in a `<figure>` tag.
-   Tables.
-   Definition lists.
-   Metadata.
-   Footnotes.
-	Fenced code blocks, with syntax highlighting.

Meta-data tags that are recognized by the parser are, as follows. Other meta-data tags are simply copied into the meta-data section of the 
generated HTML document. Keys are case insensitive.

| Key           | Description                                                                                                |
|:--------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Title			| Title of document.																						 |
| Subtitle		| Subtitle of document.																						 |
| Description	| Description of document.																					 |
| Author		| Author(s) of document.																					 |
| Date			| (Publication) date of document.																			 |
| Copyright		| Link to copyright statement.																				 |
| Previous		| Link to previous document, in a paginated set of documents.												 |
| Prev			| Synonymous with Previous.																					 |
| Next			| Link to next document, in a paginated set of documents.													 |
| Alternate		| Link to alternate page.																					 |
| Help			| Link to help page.																						 |
| Icon			| Link to icon for page.																					 |
| CSS			| Link(s) to Cascading Style Sheet(s) that should be used for visual formatting of the generated HTML page.	 |
| JavaScript	| Link(s) to JavaScript files(s) that should be includedin the generated HTML page.							 |
| Keywords		| Keywords.																									 |
| Image			| Link to image for page.																					 |
| Web			| Link to web page																							 |
| Cache-Control | HTTP Cache-Control header field.                                                                           |
| Vary          | HTTP Vary header field.                                                                                    |
| Parameter     | Name of a query parameter recognized by the page.                                                          |
| Script        | Links to server-side script files that should be included before processing the page.                      |
| AudioAutoplay | If audio should be played automatically. (Default=true).                                                   |
| AudioControls | If audio should be played with controls. (Default=false).                                                  |
| VideoAutoplay | If video should be played automatically. (Default=false).                                                  |
| VideoControls | If video should be played with controls. (Default=true).                                                   |
| Refresh       | Tells the browser to refresh the page after a given number of seconds.                                     |

## License

You should carefully read the following terms and conditions before using this software. Your use of this software indicates
your acceptance of this license agreement and warranty. If you do not agree with the terms of this license, or if the terms of this
license contradict with your local laws, you must remove any files from the **IoT Gateway** from your storage devices and cease to use it. 
The terms of this license are subjects of changes in future versions of the **IoT Gateway**.

You may not use, copy, emulate, clone, rent, lease, sell, modify, decompile, disassemble, otherwise reverse engineer, or transfer the
licensed program, or any subset of the licensed program, except as provided for in this agreement.  Any such unauthorised use shall
result in immediate and automatic termination of this license and may result in criminal and/or civil prosecution.

The [source code](https://github.com/PeterWaher/IoTGateway) provided in this project is provided open for the following uses:

* For **Personal evaluation**. Personal evaluation means evaluating the code, its libraries and underlying technologies, including learning 
	about underlying technologies.

* For **Academic use**. If you want to use the following code for academic use, all you need to do is to inform the author of who you are, what 
	academic institution you work for (or study for), and in what projects you intend to use the code. All I ask in return is for an 
	acknowledgement and visible attribution to this project, inluding a link, and that you do not redistribute the source code, or parts thereof 
	in the solutions you develop. If any solutions developed in an academic setting, become commercial, it will need a commercial license.

* For **Security analysis**. If you perform any security analysis on the code, to see what security aspects the code might have,
	all I ask is that you inform me of any findings so that any vulnerabilities might be addressed. I am thankful for any such contributions,
	and will acknowledge them.

All rights to the source code are reserved and exclusively owned by [Waher Data AB](http://waher.se/). If you're interested in using the 
source code, as a whole, or partially, you need a license agreement with the author. You can contact him through [LinkedIn](http://waher.se/).

This software is provided by the copyright holder and contributors "as is" and any express or implied warranties, including, but not limited to, 
the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose are disclaimed. In no event shall the copyright owner or contributors 
be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, or consequential damages (including, but not limited to, procurement of substitute 
goods or services; loss of use, data, or profits; or business interruption) however caused and on any theory of liability, whether in contract, strict 
liability, or tort (including negligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of the use of this software, even if advised of the possibility of such 
damage.

The **IoT Gateway** is &copy; [Waher Data AB](http://waher.se/) 2016.
 
[![](../../Images/logo-Futura-300x58.png)](http://waher.se/)


## Example

Following is a simple example in C# on how to parse markdown text, export it to XAML and then convert it to a UIElement for display:

```csharp
Emoji1LocalFiles Emoji1_24x24 = new Emoji1LocalFiles(Emoji1SourceFileType.Png64, 24, 24, "pack://siteoforigin:,,,/Graphics/Emoji1/png/64x64/%FILENAME%");
MarkdownDocument Markdown = new MarkdownDocument(Text, new MarkdownSettings(Emoji1_24x24, false));

XamlSettings Settings = new XamlSettings();
Settings.TableCellRowBackgroundColor1 = "#20404040";
Settings.TableCellRowBackgroundColor2 = "#10808080";

string XAML = Markdown.GenerateXAML(Settings);
object UIElement = XamlReader.Parse(XAML);
```

Emojis are defined in [Waher.Content.Emoji](../../Content/Waher.Content.Emoji), and the set of free emojis from **Emoji1** is made available in the
[Waher.Content.Emoji.Emoji1](../../Content/Waher.Content.Emoji.Emoji1) project. The above code is taken from **Waher.Client.WPF** and is used to create 
chat sessions in a WPF client like the following:

![Waher.Client.WPF](../../Images/Waher.Client.WPF.1.png)

The above chat session is made with a mock temperature devices defined in [Waher.Mock.Temperature](../../Mocks/Waher.Mock.Temperature), which
uses the [Waher.Networking.XMPP.Chat](../../Networking/Waher.Networking.XMPP.Chat) project to create a sensor chat bot.

Commit message:

Markdown content: Support for Login and user access privileges added.

Content/Waher.Content.Markdown/README.md, after:

﻿Introduction
=============

The **Waher.Content.Markdown** library is a Markdown parser written in C#. The library can, apart from parsing Markdown, also export to HTML and XAML, 
which makes it suitable for server-side CMS applictions, as well as client-side applications working with markdown. 
It's part of the [IoTGateway solution](https://github.com/PeterWaher/IoTGateway).

Markdown
==============

The markdown parser defined in **Waher.Content.Markdown** is inspired by the [original markdown syntax](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax)
as defined by John Gruber at Daring Fireball, but contains numerous other additions:

-   Markdown syntax within block-level HTML constructs is allowed.
-   Numbered lists retain the number used in the text.
-   Lazy numbering supported by prefixing items using `#.` instead of using actual numbers.
-   `_underline_` underlines text.
-   `__inserted__` displays inserted text.
-   `~strike through~` strikes through text.
-   `~~deleted~~` displays deleted text.
-   \`\` is solely used to display code. Curly quotes are inserted using normal quotes.
-   Headers receive automatic id's (camel casing).
-   Emojis are supported using the shortname syntax `:shortname:`.
-   Smileys are supported, and converted to emojis. Inspired from: http://git.emojione.com/demos/ascii-smileys.html
-   Sections can be created by separating them using a block containing a single line of `=` signs. Number of desired columns can be specified
    by dividing the line into groups of `=` signs, separating them with one or more space characters. Number of actual columns used to present
    the information will depend on medium used to display the content. Currently, only HTML supports multi-column sections, and then only if
    the client used has sufficient space to display the desired number of columns.
-	Script can be embedded in the markdown between curly braces `{` and `}`. It is evaluated and the result inserted in the final output.
-	Pre-processed script can be embedded in the markdown between double curly braces `{{` and `}}`. It is evaluated in a pre-processing phase,
	and can be used to modify the structure of the markdown document. Implicit print operations can be used to create dynamic markdown content.

-   Any multimedia, not just images, can be inserted using the `!` syntax. This includes audio and video. The architecture is pluggable and allows for 
    customization of inclusion of content, including web content such as YouTube videos, etc. Linking to a local markdown file will include the file into 
	the context of the document. This allows for markdown templates to be used, and for more complex constructs, such as richer tables, to be built. 
	Multimedia can have additional width and height information. Multimedia handler is selected based on URL or file extension. If no particular 
	multimedia handler is found, the source is considered to be an image.
    
    Examples:
    
    * `![some text](/some/url "some title" WIDTH HEIGHT)` where `WIDTH` and `HEIGHT` are positive integers.
    * `![Your browser does not support the audio tag](/local/music.mp3)` (is rendered using the `<audio>` tag)
    * `![Your browser does not support the video tag](/local/video.mp4 320 200)` (is rendered using the `<video>` tag)
    * `![Your browser does not support the iframe tag](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=whBPLc8m4SU 800 600)` inserts an `<iframe>` embedding the YouTube video.
	* `![Table of Contents](ToC)` inserts a table of contents (`ToC` is case insensitive).
	* `![Web Page](http://example.com/Index.html 1200 300)` inserts an `<iframe>` embedding a web page.
	* `![Markdown](/Templates/template1.md)` inserts the contents of a markdown file into the current position.
    
    Width and Height can also be defined in referenced content. Example: `![some text][someref]`  
    `[someref]: some/url "some title" WIDTH HEIGHT`

	Multiresolution or Multiformatted multimedia can be included by including a sequence of sources. If inline mode is used, each source is written
	between a set of parenthesis. The sources are then optionally separated by whitespace (inluding on a new row).

There are numerous typographical enhancements added to the parser. These are inspired by the the [Smarty Pants](http://daringfireball.net/projects/smartypants/) 
addition to the original markdown, but numerous other character sequences are also supported:

| Sequence | Changed to |
|:-----------:|:-------------------:|
| `(c)` | &copy; |
| `(C)` | &COPY; |
| `(r)` | &reg; |
| `(R)` | &REG; |
| `(p)` | &copysr; |
| `(P)` | &copysr; |
| `(s)` | &oS; |
| `(S)` | &circledS; |
| `<<` | &laquo; |
| `>>` | &raquo; |
| `<<<` | &Ll; |
| `>>>` | &Gg; |
| `<--` | &larr; |
| `-->` | &rarr; |
| `<-->` | &harr; |
| `<==` | &lArr; |
| `==>` | &rArr; |
| `<==>` | &hArr; |
| `[[` | &LeftDoubleBracket; |
| `]]` | &RightDoubleBracket; |
| `+-` | &PlusMinus; |
| `-+` | &MinusPlus; |
| `<>` | &ne; |
| `<=` | &leq; |
| `>=` | &geq; |
| `==` | &equiv; |
| `^a` | &ordf; |
| `^o` | &ordm; |
| `^0` | &deg; |
| `^1` | &#185; |
| `^2` | &#178; |
| `^3` | &#179; |
| `^TM` | &trade; |
| `%0` | &permil; |
| `%00` | &pertenk; |

Selected features from [MultiMarkdown](https://rawgit.com/fletcher/human-markdown-reference/master/index.html) and
[Markdown Extra](https://michelf.ca/projects/php-markdown/extra/) have also been included:

-   Images placed in a paragraph by itself is wrapped in a `<figure>` tag.
-   Tables.
-   Definition lists.
-   Metadata.
-   Footnotes.
-	Fenced code blocks, with syntax highlighting.

Meta-data tags that are recognized by the parser are, as follows. Other meta-data tags are simply copied into the meta-data section of the 
generated HTML document. Keys are case insensitive.

| Key           | Description                                                                                                |
|:--------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Alternate		| Link to alternate page.																					 |
| AudioAutoplay | If audio should be played automatically. (Default=true).                                                   |
| AudioControls | If audio should be played with controls. (Default=false).                                                  |
| Author		| Author(s) of document.																					 |
| Cache-Control | HTTP Cache-Control header field.                                                                           |
| Copyright		| Link to copyright statement.																				 |
| CSS			| Link(s) to Cascading Style Sheet(s) that should be used for visual formatting of the generated HTML page.	 |
| Date			| (Publication) date of document.																			 |
| Description	| Description of document.																					 |
| Help			| Link to help page.																						 |
| Icon			| Link to icon for page.																					 |
| Image			| Link to image for page.																					 |
| JavaScript	| Link(s) to JavaScript files(s) that should be includedin the generated HTML page.							 |
| Keywords		| Keywords.																									 |
| Login			| Link to a login page. This page will be shown if the user variable does not contain a user.                |
| Next			| Link to next document, in a paginated set of documents.													 |
| Parameter     | Name of a query parameter recognized by the page.                                                          |
| Prev			| Synonymous with Previous.																					 |
| Previous		| Link to previous document, in a paginated set of documents.												 |
| Privilege 	| Requered user privileges to display page.                                                                  |
| Refresh       | Tells the browser to refresh the page after a given number of seconds.                                     |
| Script        | Links to server-side script files that should be included before processing the page.                      |
| Subtitle		| Subtitle of document.																						 |
| Title			| Title of document.																						 |
| Vary          | HTTP Vary header field.                                                                                    |
| UserVariable  | Name of the variable that will hold a reference to the IUser interface for the currently logged in user.   |
| Web			| Link to web page																							 |
| VideoAutoplay | If video should be played automatically. (Default=false).                                                  |
| VideoControls | If video should be played with controls. (Default=true).                                                   |

## License

You should carefully read the following terms and conditions before using this software. Your use of this software indicates
your acceptance of this license agreement and warranty. If you do not agree with the terms of this license, or if the terms of this
license contradict with your local laws, you must remove any files from the **IoT Gateway** from your storage devices and cease to use it. 
The terms of this license are subjects of changes in future versions of the **IoT Gateway**.

You may not use, copy, emulate, clone, rent, lease, sell, modify, decompile, disassemble, otherwise reverse engineer, or transfer the
licensed program, or any subset of the licensed program, except as provided for in this agreement.  Any such unauthorised use shall
result in immediate and automatic termination of this license and may result in criminal and/or civil prosecution.

The [source code](https://github.com/PeterWaher/IoTGateway) provided in this project is provided open for the following uses:

* For **Personal evaluation**. Personal evaluation means evaluating the code, its libraries and underlying technologies, including learning 
	about underlying technologies.

* For **Academic use**. If you want to use the following code for academic use, all you need to do is to inform the author of who you are, what 
	academic institution you work for (or study for), and in what projects you intend to use the code. All I ask in return is for an 
	acknowledgement and visible attribution to this project, inluding a link, and that you do not redistribute the source code, or parts thereof 
	in the solutions you develop. If any solutions developed in an academic setting, become commercial, it will need a commercial license.

* For **Security analysis**. If you perform any security analysis on the code, to see what security aspects the code might have,
	all I ask is that you inform me of any findings so that any vulnerabilities might be addressed. I am thankful for any such contributions,
	and will acknowledge them.

All rights to the source code are reserved and exclusively owned by [Waher Data AB](http://waher.se/). If you're interested in using the 
source code, as a whole, or partially, you need a license agreement with the author. You can contact him through [LinkedIn](http://waher.se/).

This software is provided by the copyright holder and contributors "as is" and any express or implied warranties, including, but not limited to, 
the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose are disclaimed. In no event shall the copyright owner or contributors 
be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, or consequential damages (including, but not limited to, procurement of substitute 
goods or services; loss of use, data, or profits; or business interruption) however caused and on any theory of liability, whether in contract, strict 
liability, or tort (including negligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of the use of this software, even if advised of the possibility of such 
damage.

The **IoT Gateway** is &copy; [Waher Data AB](http://waher.se/) 2016.
 
[![](../../Images/logo-Futura-300x58.png)](http://waher.se/)


## Example

Following is a simple example in C# on how to parse markdown text, export it to XAML and then convert it to a UIElement for display:

```csharp
Emoji1LocalFiles Emoji1_24x24 = new Emoji1LocalFiles(Emoji1SourceFileType.Png64, 24, 24, "pack://siteoforigin:,,,/Graphics/Emoji1/png/64x64/%FILENAME%");
MarkdownDocument Markdown = new MarkdownDocument(Text, new MarkdownSettings(Emoji1_24x24, false));

XamlSettings Settings = new XamlSettings();
Settings.TableCellRowBackgroundColor1 = "#20404040";
Settings.TableCellRowBackgroundColor2 = "#10808080";

string XAML = Markdown.GenerateXAML(Settings);
object UIElement = XamlReader.Parse(XAML);
```

Emojis are defined in [Waher.Content.Emoji](../../Content/Waher.Content.Emoji), and the set of free emojis from **Emoji1** is made available in the
[Waher.Content.Emoji.Emoji1](../../Content/Waher.Content.Emoji.Emoji1) project. The above code is taken from **Waher.Client.WPF** and is used to create 
chat sessions in a WPF client like the following:

![Waher.Client.WPF](../../Images/Waher.Client.WPF.1.png)

The above chat session is made with a mock temperature devices defined in [Waher.Mock.Temperature](../../Mocks/Waher.Mock.Temperature), which
uses the [Waher.Networking.XMPP.Chat](../../Networking/Waher.Networking.XMPP.Chat) project to create a sensor chat bot.
